gaza's hamus run Health Ministry says at
least 70 people have been killed in an
air strike that hit a refugee camp the
attack Came As the World Health
Organization visited gaza's largest
hospital again finding facilities
overwhelmed by the number of wounded
meanwhile Israel released new footage of
what it says is part of hamas's
underground tunnel
Network they let weapons ammunition and
emergency rooms Israel's military says
this winding network of tunnels is where
Hamas oversaw the attacks on October 7th
soldiers reportedly also found the
bodies of five Israeli hostages killed
by Hamas while in
captivity in the headquarters which is
located dozens of meters underground we
found weapons infrastructure for the
production of weapons Laboratories where
weapons were produced and emergency
rooms where the commander of the
headquarters
ahed rondor led the fighting on October
7th against the state of
Israel Israel says it will now move its
focus to Southern Gaza in its War to
eliminate Hamas which is recognized as a
terrorist group by the EU and the
US the push comes as a fresh round of
air strikes hit residential homes in the
magazi refugee camp killing dozens of
people
there during a visit to alifa hospital
the largest medical facility in Gaza
World Health Organization officials
issued the most dire assessment yet of
the humanitarian situation
[Music]
there I'm back in
Al the largest hospital in Gaza for the
third time this week where it's still a
case of absolute misery with people
still on the floors it's almost
impossible to walk critical cases
doctors and nurses absolutely scrambling
people crying out that they need blood
for their sons and daughter who are
dying there's
almost nothing that this team can do the
wh stressed that there is still an
urgent need of fuel medicine food and
water and that a real risk of famine was
looming ever
larger and our correspondent Yan Philip
Schultz joins us from Jerusalem now yeah
Yan Philip let's first talk about that
air strike on the refugee camp what more
do you know about
it there are reports that more than 70
people died in in this heavy air strike
on al- magazi refugee camp uh this is
information provided by uh the Hamas
controlled Health Ministry but local
journalists uh journalists have
confirmed the uh report elag gazi is a
huge Refugee site in the central part of
Gaza but Israel has also intensified its
military campaign in all other parts of
the strip there are reports that uh more
than 160 people have died over the
weekend uh uh journalists on the ground
describe horrible scenes of uh panicking
families and once again completely
overwhelmed medical
facilities and Yan Philip you were in
Bethlehem yesterday where as many of our
viewers know for centuries Christian
pilgrims usually celebrate the birth of
of Jesus but this year no no
celebrations why is
that uh representative from all churches
said it's impossible to celebrate at the
moment with all the destruction around
and indeed it was a very very Grim
atmosphere no tourists no lights no big
Christmas tree no children buying candy
uh from Street vendors the marching band
that usually accompanies the legend
patriarch with joyful music uh passed by
in in complete silence which was really
a very uh intensive scene and um
Everybody agreed it's impossible to
celebrate the only installation was a
nativity scene that showed Jesus being
born in the middle of Destruction and
rubble and just to I imagine that must
have been an incredibly moving thing to
to see but to step back to the look at
the bigger picture of this conflict
reports were hearing that the Israeli is
maybe thinking of stopping or slowing
their military campaign are they founded
reports what are you
hearing well what is sure is that the
United States have once again increased
pressure on Israel uh to what they say
carry out more targeted attacks
President Biden stressed once again the
importance to protect civilians and
there are local media reports regarding
a new proposal from uh Egypt uh the
Israeli government is discussing this
proposal at the moment um according to
local media sources uh it contains
several steps uh including uh temporary
Truth uh then the release of more
hostages and new peace negotiations but
at the same time prime minister netan
once again stressed that Israel will
carry on the war until the complete
destruction of Hamas however long it
will take all right DW's Yan Philip
Schultz in
Jerusalem and we're going to talk live
now to the who official we just saw in
that report it's Shan Casey who is the
emergency medical team coordinator who
is joining us from Rafa now thank you
Sean um we just watched you there
visiting the biggest medical complex in
Gaza the alifa hospital tell us more
about what was going on there when you
visited thanks so this was my third
visit to Ala in in about a week and what
I've seen is uh a similar situation in
the emergency department with just
hundreds of patients streaming in pretty
constantly patients being rolled in on
stretchers along the street uh patients
being carried in by their family members
being brought in on Donkey carts um and
even on trolleys uh hundreds and
patients on Journeys on the floor uh
family members desperately crying out
for assistance and a very very small
team of doctors and nurses only five or
six doctors five or six nurses and some
volunteers from the community some
paramedics medical students nursing
students uh trying to care for these
patients but it's absolute chaos and
absolute misery um and and what makes it
even more challenging is that the
hospital itself has been directly struck
and there are 50,000 I was told when I
was there two days ago 50,000 displaced
persons living in the hospital building
so I walked across the surgical Ward uh
you can see the dark stairways that we
went up and down there are people
everywhere living in the stairwells
living in the operating theaters um the
whole building is occupied because
people view it as a one of the few safer
spaces there's no safe place in Gaza not
anywhere in Gaza at the moment um but
it's it's considered one of the safest
so it's extremely crowded it's extremely
full we delivered some medical supplies
uh some fuel uh we have a team going up
again uh tomorrow to deliver more fuel
uh and to establish some some kitchens
with World Central Kitchen to hopefully
be able to provide food for patients and
staff uh but what we've also seen is uh
a rising level of desperation um really
people's dignity has been stolen uh they
are just crying out for food and water
um desperate for assistance that's very
slow to come uh so it's it's a it's a
really disheartening and sad situation
well let me just ask you a question
about something we can't see in those
pictures but that you talk about in your
report which is the risk of infectious
dis diseases uh how dangerous is it to
have all those people gathered in the
hospital area in a situation where I
guess the drinking water is hard to come
by How concerned are you about a major
infectious disease
outbreak we're very concerned about the
possibility of an outbreak I mean what
we see in all of these videos and it's
very obvious is a lot of trauma right a
lot of gunshot wounds blast injuries
people bleeding with broken limbs burn
cases and things like that but behind
the scenes what you maybe don't see as
uh in such a shocking way is the cap
settings um even just behind me in this
building
if you look out the window there's
thousands of people living in makeshift
shelters um that are planks of wood with
plastic tarpine over them in the
hospital there's 50,000 people crammed
into a building there isn't enough water
actually most of the groundw here in
Gaza is salty uh so much of the water
isn't actually pable uh and so there's
no sanitation facilities uh in many of
these spontaneous uh camps or shelters
and so we have serious concerns about
the risk of communicable disease
infectious disease and as well I mean
people who need routine care pregnant
women who need anti-al care people with
diabetes people with chronic conditions
they're not getting access to services
in most of Gaza right now about 80% of
the health system is not functioning can
ium very minimal on what you were saying
about new mothers um who have had well I
guess The Misfortune to be giving birth
during a war
we understand there's um problems
getting well breastfeeding um there
there's there's not powdered milk
there's a risk of malnutrition is that
the case is that a concern how do you
help these people absolutely absolutely
I mean there's there there's nobody that
I've met in the hospitals of Gaza or in
the streets of Gaza who hasn't told me
about the need for food and water that
they're hungry that their children are
hungry um that they they can't find food
but they don't have money to buy food if
it's available there are some places
actually where food is being sold but
nobody has money to buy it um people you
know when there's food trucks that uh
are able to get through uh they
are offloaded by desperate crowds almost
instantly um so the level of desperation
is enormous and for pregnant women and
and and young babies it's even more
acute and real quick if you don't mind
uh as you know the security Council uh
voted to allow in some more humanitarian
Aid is it anywhere near
enough so there's two sides to this one
is getting more Aid into Gaza so across
the Rafa Crossing through Kem Shalom uh
across the Crossing into Gaza the Gaza
Strip then there's the other challenge
which is getting it to the last mile so
getting it to the people who need it the
most particularly you know now we've got
about a million Place persons in Rafa in
the southern part of Gaza there's
increased hostilities in the area just
north of here in communis um and in the
middle area uh there's there's lots of
active fighting so it's very difficult
the road conditions are awful every time
we do a convoy to the north we have have
punctures we have check we have delays
and the people who are getting the AIDS
are the people who are able to rush the
trucks actually so people with
disabilities and older people have even
more difficulties facing that it's it's
it's very difficult to to get to that
last smile understood well thank you for
your time and your good work Sean Casey
The Who emergency team coordinator in
Rafa
Gaza thank
you and sticking with that story let's
go now to hea Tibi who is the country
director for the NGO care in the
Palestinian territories and is joining
us from rala um tell me is your
organization able to provide any relief
to people in Gaza at the
moment good morning dear and uh um it's
a very hard time but still there are uh
possibilities of interventions and
actions de delivery of Aid in the south
of Gaza but not in the North my
colleagues coordinate with wh with other
un agencies other International
organizations and humanitarian
organizations very limited quantities of
interventions for instance care is
focusing on medical supplies and hygiene
kits and this is what we continue to do
but again very limited amount and and
quantities to hospitals and to people
and just in terms of what the
International Community the world
Community is doing the United Nations
security Council passed a resolution to
boost more Aid and 120 trucks I hear
Yesterday entered Gaza on Sunday is that
enough to change
things it is it is good change the
increase in the number of trucks
entering Gaza is good but if you can
imagine thate before the war the number
was higher part of it would be
commercial part of it would be
humanitarian all of Gaza now is under
humanitarian need uh I'm pretty sure
that you heard about the uh food
security report that was released uh
last week late last week that shows that
Gaza is is now having between the
highest stages uh a catastrophic famine
stage uh whereas the numbers that are
coming from Gaza are almost three times
higher than any previously implemented
assessments carried out by the same tool
that was used unfortunately that gives
an a an Insight of the number of people
who are starving who are unfortunately
dehydrating couple of weeks ago we said
we are very afraid to reach that
situation we arrived it 120 trucks don't
include only food or water But it
includes everything so you can imagine
how much this is limited compared to the
number of people in need and mind you we
are talking mainly about the south in
the north the numbers are extremely uh
um the families are living very harsh
conditions worse even than the South
because of the very very limited eight
assistance that enters to the north and
a final quick question if I may you
mentioned people starving we've reports
of K children losing the actual will to
thrive the keenness to eat they stop
speaking or eating because of the
immense psychological trauma are you
worried about that how can you help
those
kids this is one of the hardest
questions that you asked me and it feels
very harsh because we have seen this
unfortunately this is happening to one
of my colleagues children and everyone
is trying to help they are trying but
it's it's impossible
we feel traumatized with what we are
seeing on the on the screens and living
it for 80 days almost now is something
that is very very worrying one of the
the major areas of intervention after
War when ceasefire is attained is going
to be psychological support to help
people survive not forget but survive
what they have gone through
unfortunately okay Hiba Tibi thank you
so much for sharing your insights
country director of NGO car and
ramala thank
you and with the war raging in Gaza Pope
Francis has appealed for peace in a
solemn Christmas Eve Mass at the Vatican
the pontiff made numerous references to
violence and War during his address in
St Peter's Basilica without directly
naming Israel or Gaza Francis said
Hearts around the world were in bethleem
he'll lead traditional Christmas Day
prayers later on Monday
morning